
Advancing Health Through Information Technology 
NURS 8207 Section 701
Spring 2025 7B
#2 credits
Instructor Information
Instructor: Bari Dzomba, MS, PhD	Course Day(s): Wednesday
Preferred pronouns: she/her
E-mail: bari.dzomba@temple.edu 	Course Time: 7pm-8:50pm
Telephone: 215-204-1892	Course Location: online, Zoom
Office Location: 529 Ritter Annex	Office Hours: M 1-3 pm and by appt, virtual only https://temple.zoom.us/my/bari.dzomba (this is different from course zoom)

Synchronous Session(s):  EST and via Zoom (zoom link will be in Canvas Course)

 Join URL: https://temple.zoom.us/j/95554961178


WED MARCH 12,2025
WED MARCH 19, 2025
WED MARCH 26, 2025
WED APRIL 2, 2025
WED APRIL 9, 2025
WED APRIL 16, 2025
WED APRIL 23, 2025















Course Prerequisites or Co-Requisites
None
Course Description
Course content emphasizes the role of information technology in supporting the advanced practice nurse as healthcare provider, administrative/financial manager, client educator and researcher, in a variety of health care settings. Foundational concepts in nursing informatics, and its applications in point-of-care technology, data management and analytics, and patient safety and quality are reviewed. Emerging developments in nanotechnology, genomics, and the harnessing of social media in healthcare delivery are explored.
Course Format/Instructional Methods (How the Course Will be Taught)
Course formats include synchronous and asynchronous online instruction.  Instructional methods include lecture, seminar-based discussion, group activities, unit based and web-enhanced assignments, written and oral presentations. Most activities are asynchronous in nature to allow for a flexible time and pace of completion.  

The hybrid approach is that the asynchronous activities allow you more time to research additional information (using course materials and outside readings/materials) to support their class contributions, as well as spaces for individual reflection. The synchronous sessions allow us to engage in live discussions, raising and answering questions that stem from the course materials. 
Course Expectations for Student Success
I am here to support your learning goals in the class, and I want to see everyone succeed. I encourage you to use all available resources, including the Writing Center, and Library Resources to assist you with the course. This course is a 2-credit course that meets for 2 hours each week for 7 weeks (some weeks are synchronous, live sessions other weeks may have pre-recorded content).
Temple's policy on credit hours states that 1-semester credit is equivalent to 1 hour (50 minutes) of faculty instruction time per week for 15 weeks (inclusive of exam week) AND a minimum of 2 hours of out-of-class student work.

Expectations for Class Conduct
The best way to maintain a safe and focused learning environment is for everyone to get vaccinated. Masks must be worn by vaccinated and unvaccinated people in all indoor or enclosed spaces (including classrooms, the Library, the TECH Center, the Student Center, shuttles/buses, administrative spaces, common areas in residence halls, etc.). For your general health and well-being, hand washing and monitoring your health are still highly recommended.

Statement on Diversity and Inclusion
The College of Public Health supports and encourages diversity and inclusion. I am committed to the principle of universal learning which means that I will do all that I can to make our classrooms, our virtual meetings, and our interactions as inclusive as possible. To support universal learning, I will promote an environment of mutual respect, civility in our interactions, and the ability to listen and observe others– I expect that all participants in the class will work towards the same goal. 

You have the right to be addressed by the name and pronouns that you select; please be sure to share your preferred pronoun name that you wish to be used in the class. You have the right to learn in a safe and supportive environment. If you feel any form of harassment or discrimination, please contact our CPH and SW Equal Opportunity Ombudspeople.

If you need accommodations based on a documented disability, please contact Disability Resources and Services in Ritter Annex 100, 215-204-1280 or 215-204-1786 (TTY) or drs@temple.edu. Please reach out to me as soon as possible to discuss your needs and to share any documentation from DRS so that we can appropriately plan for success. (Accommodations are not retroactive). Please bear in mind that COVID-19 may result in a need for new or additional accommodations.
Temple and Covid-19
Temple University’s motto is Perseverance Conquers and we will continue to meet the changing circumstances of the COVID pandemic with flexibility and resilience. Working together as a community to deliver a meaningful learning experience is a responsibility, we all share. For the most current information on Covid-related plans and policies, please refer to https://www.temple.edu/coronavirus
Course Technology Requirements
Technological requirements for the course include access to the internet and a computer with voice and video recording capabilities for the use of Canvas, TUMail, Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, and Zoom; access to a printer; and access to a handheld device (iPhone, Android phone or other device).  Students should check Canvas and email at least once daily to ensure awareness of course announcements. 

All students are required to comply with Temple University’s Computer and Security Policy at https://secretary.temple.edu/sites/secretary/files/policies/04.71.11.pdf. All CPH students are expected to adhere to the Laptop Requirement: https://cphapps.temple.edu/wiki/it/student/laptop. 
Limited resources are available for students who do not have the technology they need for class. Students with educational technology needs, including no computer or camera or insufficient Wifi-access, should submit a Student Technology Assistance Application located in TUPortal and linked from the Dean of Students Support and Resources webpage. The university will endeavor to meet needs, such as with a long-term loan of a laptop or Mifi device, a refurbished computer, or subsidized internet access. Internet Essentials from Comcast provides the option to purchase a computer for $150 and high-speed Internet service for $9.95 a month, plus tax. The Emergency Broadband Benefit (EBB) is available to purchase Xfinity, Verizon, T-Mobile, and other internet services. Qualified households can receive a temporary monthly credit of up to $50/month toward their Internet service and leased Internet equipment until the program's funding runs out. On-campus computer labs have resumed normal operations and are available for student use.

Remote Proctoring Statement
Zoom, Proctorio or a similar proctoring tool may be used to proctor exams and quizzes in this course. These tools verify your identity and record online actions and surroundings. It is the learner’s responsibility to have the necessary government or school issued ID, a laptop or desktop computer with a reliable internet connection, the Google Chrome and Proctorio extension, a webcam/built-in camera and microphone, and system requirements for using Proctorio, Zoom, or a similar proctoring tool. Before the exam begins, the proctor may require a scan of the room in which you are taking the exam.

E-mail
To facilitate communication, the university requires you to have an e-mail account ending in @temple.edu (https://secretary.temple.edu/sites/secretary/files/policies/04.74.11.pdf). During the semester, I will try to return your e-mail within 36 hours unless I am out of the office or the university is closed. E-mails sent after noon on Fridays will generally not be returned until Monday—please plan accordingly. Please remember that e-mails regarding technological questions should be directed to Temple’s Help Desk at help@temple.edu
Required Course Materials
Required:
McBride, S., & Tietze, M. (2018).  Nursing informatics for the advanced practice nurse: Patient safety, quality, outcomes, and interprofessionalism. Second Edition.  New York, NY: Springer. ISBN: 9780826140456 (available online via Library) (McBride and Tietze Textbook Link).
Recommended:
American Psychological Association (2019). Publication Manual of the American Psychological Association, (7th ed.). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association. ISBN: 978-1433832161 (APA Publication Manual 7th ed).
The required course materials for this course are open educational resources and are available at no cost to students via the DNP Library Guide: 



Course Objectives and Competencies

Required Course Assignments
Grading Scale
The grading scale described below will be used in evaluating the didactic components of all graduate nursing courses.  


 
 
** Rounding: Per program policy, only final grades will be rounded. Final grades of 0.50 or greater will be rounded up to the next whole numeric value. Therefore, a 79.50 is the minimum grade needed to pass this course, as this is rounded to an 80. Exam and quiz scores will not be rounded and will be entered in the grade book to the nearest hundredth of a percent. ** 

Each assignment will receive a numerical grade and be weighted in the calculation of a final numerical grade as indicated above. 
A student must achieve a (B-) or higher in all Graduate Nursing courses. 

Detailed descriptions of assignments and rubrics can be found in Canvas.
No late papers or assignments will be accepted unless arrangements have been made in advance. 
Extensions will only be given in rare instances for circumstances outside the student’s control. If an extension is granted, the new due date given is firm and must be met. 
Students should review the CPH Graduate Student Handbook and the Graduate Nursing Handbook for policies on academic honesty, plagiarism, cheating on examinations and violating rules of assignments. 
The Department of Nursing Honor Code applies to this course.
Attendance Protocols and Your Health
To achieve course learning goals, students must attend and participate in classes, according to your instructors’ requirements. However, if you feel unwell or if you are under quarantine or in isolation because you have been exposed to the virus or tested positive for it, you should not come to campus or attend in-person classes or activities. It is the student’s responsibility to contact their instructors to create a plan for participation and engagement in the course as soon as they can do so, and to make a plan to complete all assignments in a timely fashion, when illness delays their completion.
Course Minimum Grade
The DNP Graduate Nursing Program requires that all students achieve a minimum grade of “B-” for all courses. The College of Public Health requires a minimum grade of B- in all required courses (not electives) and a 3.0 minimum GPA to graduate. For further question, please speak with your graduate program director.
Course Schedule
Please note that the assignments, readings, quizzes, exams, activities, other evaluative assessments as well as student preparation/studying are aligned with Temple University’s credit hour policy: 02.10.19 (http://policies.temple.edu/PDF/352.pdf) : “The semester credit hour is the basic unit of academic credit granted by Temple University. One semester credit is equivalent to one hour (50 minutes) of instruction time per week for 15 weeks, which includes one week for exams; and a minimum of two hours of out of class student work each week per credit hour. An equivalent amount of work is required for other academic activities such as laboratory work, internships, practica, studio work, or other academic work leading to the award of credit hours.”
Course schedule may be subject to change with advanced written notification. 



General Policies
All University and College of Public Health policies will be upheld. The Graduate Student Handbook for the College of Public Health details College expectations: The Graduate Nursing Handbook and the CPH Graduate Handbook can both be found in the Graduate Nursing Canvas Course.
CPH Grad Handbook
DNP Grad Nursing Handbook

Remote Proctoring Statement
Zoom, Proctorio or a similar proctoring tool may be used to proctor exams and quizzes in this course. These tools verify your identity and record online actions and surroundings. It is your responsibility to have the necessary government or school issued ID, a laptop or desktop computer with a reliable internet connection, the Google Chrome and Proctorio extension, a webcam/built-in camera and microphone, and system requirements for using Proctorio, Zoom, or a similar proctoring tool. Before the exam begins, the proctor may require a scan of the room in which you are taking the exam.
Incomplete
A student will be eligible for a grade of “Incomplete” only if he/she: 1) has completed at least 51% of the work at a passing level, 2) is unable to complete the work for a serious reason beyond his or her control, and 3) files a signed agreement with the instructor outlining the work to be completed and the timeframe in which that work will be completed. The student is responsible for initiating this process and all incomplete forms must be sent to the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs prior to the start of study days in that semester.  (Please refer to the following link for more details:  http://policies.temple.edu/PDF/41.pdf). 
Withdrawal from the Course
If a student wishes to withdraw from a course, it is the student’s responsibility to meet the deadline for the last day to withdraw within the current semester (www.temple.edu/registrar/documents/calendars/ ). Please consult the University policy on withdrawals (http://policies.temple.edu/PDF/337.pdf).
Statement on Academic Rights & Responsibilities
Freedom to teach and freedom to learn are inseparable facets of academic freedom.  The University has a policy on Student and Faculty Academic Rights and Responsibilities (Policy #03.70.02), which can be accessed at http://policies.temple.edu/PDF/99.pdf. 
Academic Honesty
According to the University Student Code of Conduct, students must not commit, attempt to commit, aid, encourage, facilitate, or solicit the commission of academic dishonesty and impropriety including plagiarism, academic cheating, and selling lecture notes or other information provided by an instructor without the instructor’s authorization. Violations may result in failing the assignment and/or failing the course, and/or other sanctions as enumerated in the University Code of Conduct, which can be accessed at http://studentconduct.temple.edu/policies.
Counseling Services
You may experience issues that can cause barriers to learning (strained relationships, increased anxiety, substance use, feeling down, difficulty concentrating and/or lack of motivation). These concerns may lead to diminished academic performance and ability to participate in activities. Please refer to the Tuttleman Counseling Center at https://www.temple.edu/temple-students/health-and-wellness/health-and-counseling. For those not in proximity to Main campus, the Care Team (https://careteam.temple.edu/) can assist you in finding support in your locale.

Sexual Misconduct
Temple University is committed to providing a learning and working environment that emphasizes the dignity and worth of every member of its community, free from discriminatory conduct. Sexual harassment in any form or context is contrary to this commitment and will not be tolerated. Please refer to the University policy on sexual harassment at: https://secretary.temple.edu/sites/secretary/files/policies/04.82.02.pdf Additional resources related to sexual harassment and ways in which to report an incident can be found at: http://sexualmisconduct.temple.edu/ 
Permission to Record 
Students who wish to record class should speak with the instructor in advance to be respectful of classmates. Recording of lectures as a disability accommodation is permitted. Students are not permitted to copy, publish or redistribute any recordings without express permission from the instructor and any students recorded; distribution without permission may be a violation of educational privacy laws (FERPA) and copyright laws. Instructors may record live/synchronous class sessions to share through Canvas for students unable to attend class or as a study tool. The instructor will inform the class in advance and is able to pause the recording, upon request, if there are sensitive topics being discussed. All instructor recordings are property of Temple University.  
Netiquette Statement  
It is important to foster a respectful and productive online learning environment. Our differences, some of which are outlined in the University's nondiscrimination statement, add richness to this learning experience. All opinions/experiences must be respected in the spirit of academic discourse. Treat your classmates and instructor with respect in all communication, class activities, and meetings; do not attack any individual. Avoid the use of profanity, sarcasm, slang and the use of all capital letters in discussion threads, as these forms of communication may be disruptive. Be careful with your own and others’ privacy. Treat others the way you wish to be treated. 

Library Resources
Students may request appointments with Librarians, who can provide targeted assistance at all stages of your project, including exploring a topic, test-driving Temple’s academic research tools, and identifying and citing sources. A Subject Librarian has particular skills to focus on your major or the class you are taking. Schedule appointments individually or in small groups. Easy access to program specific resources may be found in Library research guides http://guides.temple.edu/

Continuity of Instruction in Event of Emergency
Students are to register for the TUAlert System (http://www.temple.edu/safety/tuready/) to be made aware of University closures due to weather or emergency situations and follow all university-wide emergency instructions. In the event of an emergency, class materials/instructions will be provided in a web-based format via Canvas or zoom. Students registered for the class will be alerted to any other modifications from the instructor via email.
